# 7.3 worksheet for BREAKOUT questions
<br> 


# BREAKOUT 1 

1. Using the EVCharging table, Each Charging location has multiple charging stations. Reveal the `locationId` and Find out how many charging stations there are at each Charging location and rename this column `numStations`.  Order the result set so the location with the most stations appears first. Limit the output to 20. 

```SQL
SELECT ______, _____(______)
FROM EVCharging
_______ ___ LocationID
ORDER BY ______(_____) ______
______ 20; 

```

2. Using the EVCharging table, I would like to know the average power consumption (`kwhtotal`) per user. Please list the user identification and rename the aggregation column to `avgPower`. Round this number to 2 decimal places. 

```SQL
SELECT ______, ROUND(_____(______),___) as '_____'
FROM EVCharging
GROUP BY ________; 
```


3. Using the EVCharging table, Find the total power output from each charging location. You you list the location identification and rename other column to `totalpowerKWH` Round the answer to 2 deciaml points and list the out put in highest to lowest order. Limit the order to the top 10. 
```SQL

SELECT ______, ROUND(_____(______),___) as '_____'
FROM EVCharging
GROUP BY ________; 

```


# BREAKOUT 2


1. Using the EVCharging table, Find the total time spent charging and total power output for each user. You should have three columns, userId, `totalTimeHrs`, and `totalPwrKWH`. Order the output from largest to smallest power consumption and limit the results to the top 5. 

```SQL

SELECT ______,
____(_______) as 'totalTimeHr',
____(_______) as  'totalPwrKWH'
FROM EVCharging
GROUP BY ________
ORDER BY ________ _____; 

```
2. Using the EVCharging Table,  Find the total time spent charging (`totalTimeHrs`), and the total power consumed(`totalPwrKwh`) from charging EV's by each User on Thursdays. Round the answers to 2 deciaml points and list the out put in highest to lowest order. Limit the order to the top 25 users.
```SQL

SELECT ______,
ROUND(_____(______),___) as 'totalTimeHr',
ROUND(_____(______),___) as  'totalPwrKWH'
FROM EVCharging
______ weekday = '_______'
GROUP BY ________
ORDER BY ________ _____; 
_____ 25;
```


3. The EV charging firm is wondering which charging Stations (stationId) are being used the least. They would like to move these stations to a place with a greater need. Please find the total number of hours (`sumTotalHrs`) that each station is used. The output should contain all of the stations that have a total usage of less than 5 hours. 

```SQL

SELECT ______,
____(_______) as 'sumTotalHrs',
FROM EVCharging
GROUP BY ________
HAVING ______ ___ 5

```

# BREAKOUT 3
1. Using factCharge and dimDay, find out which day of the week has the highest average charging time? Return `dayOfWeek` and `avgChargeTime`. Please round `avgChargeTime` to two decimal places and order the result set from highest to lowest `avgChargeTime`.

```SQL
SELECT d.______ as 'dayofWeek',
ROUND(AVG(f._______),2) as 'sumTotalHrs',
FROM factCharge f
______ JOIN dimDay d 
ON f.dayID = d.datekey
GROUP BY __________
ORDER BY _______ _____;

```


2. Using dimUser and factCharge, which app platform had the most amount of charging sessions. Return `appPlatform` and `numCharges`. Order the result set from highest to lowest number of charges. 
```SQL
SELECT u.______ as 'appPlatform',
____(*) as 'numCharges',
FROM factCharge f
______ ______ _____ u
ON f.______ = u.________
GROUP BY u.________
ORDER BY 2 _____;

```